#Overview
This is a simple demo of natural forces on terrain generated by perlin noise.

##Perlin Noise
The perlin noise used in this project is created by https://github.com/krubbles/Icaria-Noise. The base terrain is generated in O(n<sup>2</sup>) time.
The size of the terrain generated can be modified in WorldConfig.cs, by editing the X and Y values of WORLD_SIZE. Max and min heights of the world can be set with the MAX_HEIGHT and MIN_HEIGHT variables. Sea level can be set with SEA_LEVEL. All runs also have a unique seed. If the same seed is used twice withough changing any other parameters, the same terrain will be generated. The seed can be modified by editing the _seed variable in WorldConfig.cs.

##Simulation
The simulation simulates several major sets of the water/sediment cycle: Temprature, Pressure, Runoff, Sediment, Groundwater, Vegetation, Erosion, Evaporation, and Precipitation. 
The overall time complexity is O(n<sup>3</sup>) (world area * simulation length), but individual steps may have their own individual complexities. The number of loops, or ticks, that the simulation runs through can be modified in WorldConfig.cs, by editing the SIMULATION_LENGTH variable.

###Temprature and Pressure
Temprature and Pressure are both a gradients with a random element. Temprature is based on Y coordinate, with closer to the center of the terrain being hotter, and on Z coordinate, with higher up being colder. Both temprature range and sea level temprature can be modified in the WorldConfig.cs class, with the TEMP_RANGE and SEA_LEVEL_TEMP variables respecively. Pressure is only based on Z coordinate, with higher coordinates having lower pressure. The pressure at sea level can be modified in the WorldConfig.cs class with the SEA_LEVEL_PRESSURE variable.

###Runoff and Sediment Depositing
Runoff runs down the slope of the terrain from high elevations to low. These directions are determined by creating a slope field from the heights and locations of different parts of terrain. Generating the slope field has O(n<sup>2</sup>) time complexity, but it does not need to be regenerated every tick. The frequency that the slope field is regenerated can be set in WorldConfig.cs with the SLOPE_FIELD_REFRESH_RATE variable. Sediment also moves with the slope field, adding to the height of the terrain where it is deposited.

###Groundwater and Vegetation
As runoff runs over a tile of terrain, some of the water is deposited there as groundwater. The amount of runoff absorbed is inversely proportional to the amount of groundwater already present, so as tiles get more saturated they can absorb less runoff. Groundwater feeds plants, increasing the vegetation growth rate. However, if vegetation grows too quickly the groundwater may not be able to support the vegetation, so some may die off.

###Erosion
While runoff deposits sediment, that sediment must already be eroded away from a tile of terrain. Erosion is increased by runoff, but decreased by vegetation, as the roots help stabilize the soil. Tiles at the bottoms of valleys will still erode, however as the sediment has no where else to go it will be returned to the same tile.

###Evaporation and Precipitation
As runoff moves downhill it also evaporates. The rate at which it evaporates is determined by the Langmuir equation for evaporation, E = (P<sub>sat</sub> - P<sub>a</sub>)√(m/(2πRT)). Vegetation dying also releases water vapor. This water vapor then forms into clouds. Clouds are moved by a wind vector and have mass, volume, and therefor density. Every tick each cloud finds the nearest tile to its position and releases an amount of percipitation onto that tile porportional to the cloud's density. This precipitation forms into runoff. If two clouds precipitate onto the same tile, they are combined for efficiency. Simulating the clouds has an a time complexity of O(n) where n is the number of clouds.

##Graphing
This program uses the Plotly.NET library inorder to format results into interactive 3D graphs. Currently only the height map of terrain is generated, but displaying other variables such as precipitation or vegetation is in progress.
